<h2>Interactive Website Development</h2><hr>
This is the readme.md file for my website that has been created for the interactive website development module. This game that I have created is to try and use my knowledge of JS, CSS and HTML to create a simple but yet effective series of mememory games. My idea was to create a game that contained a way of rewarding the player no matter what, but there reward value would improve depending on how well they complete each of the mini-games.

<h3>Index</h3><hr>
This is my index for easy navigation around my readme.md file. This is to help the user be able to find out the information on which they may need.

I <a href="1">Introduction</a></br>
II <a href="2"></a></br>
III <a href="3"></a></br>
IV <a href="4"></a></br>
V <a href="5"></a></br>


<h3 id="1">Introduction</h3><hr>
Initially I wanted to create a game on which would present the user with a series of different memory games, I didn't want to create a simple game with one mechanic and only be able to test the player in one way. I also wanted to try and create the game using only JS, CSS and HTML. I wanted to try and keep the website on which holds the game simple and yet effective so that it maybe able to be resized and changed depending on what the user would like to do. The functionality and simplisity of the two webpages make them very versatile.

I wanted to create a game that had the ability to inform the player on how to complete the different mini-games but, I had realised that text when created on a canvas can behave in a series of strange and interesting ways to. I chose to go back to my original idea and use an external text box for the Guide to use to talk to the player.

Originally I had wanted to make the game, all in one and try and create a series of assets by hand, but I liked the idea of a website that generates and creates the visuals using the canvas.getContect command and the 2D rendering graphics. I also wanted to try and create a series of functions within my game that can be changed massively, which would allow for functions like the world gen, to be able to create a series of worlds depending on the users choice.

One of the current things I am trying to create and implements is for some visual things to be geneerated on the canvas whilst the player is in the menu screen. Originally I wanted to hide the canvas and display it when the user would like to play a game that required visuals. Due to the issues that where created from hiding the canvas, I choice to leave the canvas always visible and will fill the empty space with some idle imagery. I want to make sure that the mini-games are on a higher priority than the actual extra content. Like producing some sort of visual fill-in. This is a feature that could help with stimulating the users attention but I prefer to make sure that the games work to the extent on which I want, before doing the extra content.

My idea was to create a game on which the user can be rewarded from. In this game depending on how well the user completes a sequence of mini-games. Dependings on how well they are rewarded. If they incorrectly place a marker in the wrong location they would be rewarded with biome-dependent items like stone, dirt, sand and wood. If they are to complete the minigames to a good standard they would be able to recieve better products. The idea was to have the items presented to the user in a museum when completed. But I thought of create another mini-game in there where you can recover the items you find. Once recovered they would be stored in the museum as a record of how the user has done and how well they have managed to compelte the mini-game sequence. Some form of scoring system will be placed on each item. Maybe a percentage of how well the item is, will be the way it is presented. This would be a mean of how well the user has done during the different mini-games.

<h3 id="2">Initial Idea</h3><hr>
My initial idea was to try and create a game that had some form of terrain, which would be generated randomly. This would mean that the functions to call out terrain genration and rendering would have to be versatile. I would then be able to create the different biomes within the game. Originally, I wanted to make the difficulty increase over time, but instead I want to make the game become more difficult when the user successfully completes a full mini-game. I may create an average of how well the user performs and from these statistics make the game demanding on the user but custom to how well they can complete the mini-games. I want to make the game able to become hard but not impossible. I want to try and present the user with a challenge that is equal to how well they can compelte the game.

The way on which the game would judge difficulty is through how accurate and how quick the user is. I will use the percentage of how accurate the user is to give them bonus time on the scan. This would be to allow the user to have bonus time if they are very inaccurate but if they succeed with the 2 second scan time I may decrease it. Then also I will try and create some form of time boundaries for the user. If they are quick or slow then create an understanding of how fast they are. Maybe creating a mean value of the users time they take and how accurate they are overal.

I am trying to implement a function on which the user is able to select any location and after selecting the amount of locations given to the user, then I would begin a second mini-game this would a quick timed, sequence event. I will try and make the text command produce a sequence that the user will have to repeat. This type of mini-game will be used twice. One within this instance and another when the user is in the museum trying to recover an item that they have unearthed.

<h3 id="3">Development</h3><hr>
Whilst programming the website I want to make it able to be accessed from a series of devices. I would like to try and create a game with a fundemental premise, but be able to be played by many different people. Some of the functions on which I have created may be seen as very overly complicated but I want to be able to generate a series of noticable differences within terrain and within the mini-game so that the user can notice the differences and notice some form of progression. I am going to try and place a series of requirements on different levels and biome types so that the user would have a series of goals. What I may do is some form of achievement system or a goal so that there is a guidence or way for the user to understand what to do.

Within this game I would like to make the controls basic but yet effective. I am trying to focus the development for just PC and at a later point, if possible begin to adapt the controls for other devices. I want to be able to produce a game that can give the user some forms of responses. I have chosen create an introduction for the user to be able to understand the functionality of the different keys that are being used. At some point I would like to fill in the canvas in different instances to make sure that its not a blank canvas. This can be done in several ways. I would like to create some form of visual representation of what the user is hovering over or going to select. This could be in a form some sort of imagery based on the idea that the text holds. I would like to create some sort of backpack, to represent the inventory, and other examples being a map or some sort of scroll. This would present more to the user and I feel as though this would make the user more interested within the game.

When creating the website shell which holds the game I went for a type of theme that would generally go well with the whole idea of digging. The idea was always some form of dig up game but then I tried to develop the idea further so that the user has more to work with.

The function for the biome will take peramitters that will permit and generate different types of terrain. I wanted a dynamic renderer and generation function to create an array value and to present the values within the arrays. Originally, I actually wanted to use some sort of function that may be provided to generate the terrain but instead I chose to make my own algorithm. My terrain generating algorithm begins to understand its peramitters which are just a gradient, and value restraints and how big the terrain actual is. With this function I am able to generate a light value that would be then placed into a hsl color callout to generate a different type of color or gradient. Along with this the algorithm assigns the values by looking to adjacent cells that are next to the cell that is being adjusted. Ramdomly, a gradient is applied which can either be possitive, neutral or negative and from this then that is applied to the selected cell and the adjacent ones. This allows for me to create a very simple but effect difference within the terrain which can be seen by the user. I originally wanted to make the terrain become bigger as the game progressed but I found that this would begin to over complicate matters. So I chose to create a piece of terrain and tiles that are consistant in size. The idea of creating functions that can be adapted allows for me to customise the terrain and try and produce a series of terrain and biome types. Effectively, the value could be seen as a form of a y axis. This would mean that the value would present a lighter color depending on its alittude.

I would also like to create a recovery mini-game with a sequence of key presses. This would be a fun way of presenting to the user how effective they where at obtaining items from the terrain. I want to create a percentage score on each geode or fossile to present how well they have been recovered. Within this instance I would be able to show how well they have done with obtaining and collecting these items.

In the website I have tried to create a very simple but effective website. This means that my main idea was to focus on the functionality of the webpage instead. I wanted to make sure that a portray a theme and style to user but dont over fill and over complicate the webpage. I want a website that would hold the game and the game would be able to be presented to the user. I wanted to make sure that the game and webpage are all in the screens view and try and make everything fit within the the screen without creating an overflow.

<h3 id="4"></h3>Deployment<hr>

<h3 id="5">Users Experiences</h3><hr>