I begin by initialising my website and start to generate the theme. I wanted to try and get both the style and font to match and feel like they are a good pair. I wanted to aim for a font similar to comic sans, but with more of a formation to the characters. I had found a found style that is called Courier new, which I had found whilst searching my PC for enabled fonts within the system files. I had liked the look of that text style and based the whole theme and font on that style. My backup for this font is Cambria, which is a more universal font type, which comes as standard on many PC's. This backup choice was just in-case users dont have that font style enabled or active on there computes.
I wanted to start with the style. I did what I usually do, enabled borders and began to construct the layout. Within this webpage though. I liked the look of the black and white contrast. I felt as though this fit the theme really well.
Initially I wanted to generate text on the canvas, whilst attempts to generate the text on the canvas, I noticed that the text was hard to read, blured and from this I realised that this would be to difficult for the user to read.
I originally wanted the main mini-game to flash and only display the places on the terrain on which the irregularities are. But after realising how extensive the webpage flashes I realised this would be bad for some users with visual differences or epylepse.
I was originbally going to have the user only be able to use the scan once. But settled for more of a toggleable scan, so the user can preserve the scan and try and locate the items on the terrain. I also realised that I could make the user be able to obtain items from the terrain even if user had selected the wrong location. The items returned would be not as valuable, but still rewards the player. This reward has got a level of increase depending how well they do during the mini-games.
There was some issues with create a map renderer, but the way on which I am rendering the map I am unable to make the function modular, originally I wanted to make the renderer module so that you can move around the map. I removed this feature because I felt like this would interfere with the mini-games mechanics, and also interfere with the function of the scan. I wanted to try and simplify the mini-game so that I can implement several other features along side of this. Recently I want to create and add a function on which the user can scan several times but what happens is the scan is able to do a 2 second burst. You may save some of the scan for another instance but the scan recovers over time. Also I want to work with this mini-game a little more to create another game like a quick-time event. I want to make the user create a series of dig attemps and once you have placed all your dig attempts. The game will begin another quick time event. During this event a sequence of QE will be displayed for a certain amount of time. Once this sequence stops being displayed, the user must resight it. If they have selected the correct location they will be rewarded with custom items. Depending on how well they complete the mini-game where they attempt to dig. If they incorrectly repeat the sequence they wil be rewarded with a broken, cracked or damaged varient to the items that they would have dug up.
I have changed a series of the variables and values, I am trying to make the game really fair but then the game would become more difficult and harder to play as it progresses.
I need to try and work out the time values present for the different instances during the minigames. Within this language it seems that if you begin to have no processes running the speed variable would begin to speed up and slow down. I still need to test whether this is true of false but noticing a form of spontaneity.
I have changed the way on which the inventory is read out. I want a function to alter the inventory array so that it is ready for display. I had then chose to neaten the printout by making it add the commas after ever item has been listed except the final item within the array. I may want to change the array printout again at another time, but will settle with this as it still provides a good display.
I have removed the feature of the scanner being unable to stop the user from placing a marker down whilst scanning. I find that the scanner feature is a little weaker than I expected but in fairness the other mini-games really can get intense. I find that this game is well considering everything and does feel fun to just mess around on.
I changed the style of the CSS it felt too seperated and I realised that the canvas and text could just be within the same seciton so it looks nicer. It feels as though A.L.P.H is creating the actual view window for us or something.
Added a cooldown to the scanner so you cant just keep pressing it to try and create a work around the absuability of it, but beyond that its a fun little mechanic.
When settling on the name for the game I always wanted to be called Dig something. I chose two names Dig Up and Dig 'em but I didnt like the recessive use of 'em. That simplified word felt a little bit to submissive of the name. I want it to sound a little longer so I chose the Dig UP Name cause it felts a little longer but still easy to say.
I have addded upgrades to allow for the user to be able to have an ability to have progression. These upgrades can allow for them to find new locations and be able to unlock new biomes.
Biomes now have set data chances to give the user different items depending on the biome you choice. Also I have added the different biomes and made each biome able to render with different colours and other features.
I have ran a JS test and corrected any issues that have been flagged by the software there was only 30 warnings and no extensive errors or issues. The warnings where for some missing declarations and semi-colons.
Changed the way on which the text is displayed, only the tutorial information is kept within the OUTPUT const and now the way I casted the outputs using game_state*10 is now rounded to prevent the information from causing undefined issues. I also made some changes to the text and made the text a little simpler.
I fixed the scan feature it was disabled after using the JS software and I had mislabelled two of my variables. I have now corrected those variables and the scan feature now works.
Added text reponses on the Museum mini-game. They where originally set up take a response from the OUTPUT array but instead are given a set response.